Hi guys.
In this lab we're going to create a billing alarm so that you get a notification when you are estimated
to reach or have reached a certain threshold.
So what we're going to do is actually set a dollar value and say if we reach or estimated to reach five
or ten dollars then we're going to get an email alert to let us know.
Now if you follow my instructions for out the course you'll be terminating your instances and the leasing
objects that might otherwise cost you money to make sure that you stay within the free to air.
But you've got to follow my instructions and you should also read up what's included in the free tier
and just make sure you're aware of what you should be doing to make sure you don't get any bills.
But just in case we're going to set up the billing alarm now you do need to be logged in into the root
account to do this because only the root account actually has access to modifying billing information.
Now we don't have any other accounts here anyway but it's just a reminder that once we do have our accounts
you still need to come back to use the root account for billing related modifications.
But for all other purposes you should always leave the root account alone you shouldn't log in with
the root account.
You should make it a very secure account with a strong password a multifactor authentication because
it's a very powerful account.
Now we're going to do that later on we're going to create our own user for logging in.
We're going to set up multifactor authentication on the root account and from that point on in the course
mostly we're going to be using an IAM account rather than a root account.
But getting back to the subject of this lab what we want to do.
We're logged into the management console as the root account.
We go up here where we've got the name of our account.
We choose the down arrow and then we go to my building dashboard.
We can then go down to billing preferences and what you'll need to do is enable receive free tier
usage alerts and receive billing alerts and then you need to put in the email address that you want
these to be sent to.
You can then choose safe preferences will now receive free tier usage alerts to the email address that
we specified.
And we also want to receive billing alerts when we reach a certain threshold in a dollar value.
So what we do here is we can choose manage billing alerts.
I'm gonna open it in a new tab.
And what this does is it opens up the monitoring tool called Cloud watch and in cloud watch we go down
to billing which is under alarms and we can choose creates alarm and what it does is actually loads
the metrics for us.
So the metric name is estimated the charges and the currency is US dollars and what we need to do now
is we come down and specify the amount in this case I'm gonna set mine to ten dollars.
You can then choose next.
And what happens is cloud watch will create an SNS topic SNS stands for the simple notification
service and is one of the AWS services that sends messages to you.
You can then choose create a new topic and I'm gonna change the name of the topic to billing alert you
then specify the end point which in this case is my email address and you can now just choose create
topic we can then choose billing alerts as the name and we can choose next.
We then get a summary of the information and we can just choose create alarm and that's it.
We've now created our alarm but we get a message which tells us that we need to confirm the subscription
in SNS so the way we do that is we can choose this option here view and SNS subscriptions and it
takes us over to the simple notification services console.
You can now see there's a pending confirmation here.
And what you need to do is go to the email address that you used and you should find an email from Amazon.
And this is the message that I received.
So all you need to do is choose confirmed subscription and you should then get a message saying subscription
confirmed.
And if we head back to the console and refresh this page we should now see that our subscription has
been confirmed and that's it.
That's all we need to do.
We'll now get free tier usage alerts and we'll also get alerts when our account balance is going to exceed
10 dollars and that's it for this lab guys.
I hope you followed along and got this set up just to make sure that you don't receive any surprise
bills in the next lab.
What we're going to do is set up multifactor authentication for the root account.